is marked as lateral half and middle
half with the help of a marker as shown
these are the micro instruments using
them the lateral half of the ligamentum
flavum is excised in one piece the
epidural fat is exposed and is then
detected a very meticulously at times a
bony spur compressing the root needs to
be removed to decompress it
satisfactorily from behind the root is
now decompressed from behind
meticulously ma stasis is now
established using bipolar coagulation
gently retracting the root medially the
prolapsed disc is exposed which in this
case is sequestered under the posterior
longitudinal ligament the ligament is
cut in cruciate fashion
and the disc is delivered piecemeal
a little more disk tissue is excised
from within the disk space
the bulk of the sequestrated disk has
now disappeared and the root is lying
lacks and free the excised lateral half
of the ligamentum flavum is then
replaced in position and the
self-retaining retractor is removed
the fashio over the muscles is
approximated with a couple of absorbable
sutures
and the skin is approximated using a sub
cuticular stitch
post-operative convalescence is very
short out of bed on the same day walks
to the toilet
requires minimum and argistix no
sedatives and discharged home the next
day
lumber micro diskectomy has really
become have come today go to morrow
aggression and the overall results have
shown it to be a far superior approach
than the standard one in a given case of
backache and sciatica due to prolapsed
lumber intervertebral discs it clearly
needs to be popularized as the treatment
of choice in the well indicated case